README.md, before:

# Fine-Tuning Llama-Guard-2-8B on AMD Developer Cloud

Complete tutorial for fine-tuning Llama-Guard-2-8B using LoRA on AMD ROCm GPUs.

## 🚀 Quick Start on AMD Developer Cloud
### Pre-requisites
- Sign up at [developer.amd.com](https://developer.amd.com)
- [Request free credits](https://anchor.digitalocean.com/amd-cloud-free-credit.html) (about 4 hours are needed) if needed, this allows running an AMD GPU at no cost
- Request access to Meta-Llama-Guard-2-8B at: https://huggingface.co/meta-llama/Meta-Llama-Guard-2-8B. This may take a day to receive access
### 1. Create GPU Droplet
  1. Once logged into the AMD Developer Cloud account
  2. Go to Create at the top of the page
  3. Choose GPU Droplet, the MI300X x8
  4. For image, choose ROCm Software in the Quick Start tap
  5. In the Quick Start Package, choose PyTorch
  6. Click on `Add SSH Key` and run below script in the local terminal to create ssh key to add. This is important in case you need to ssh into the instance from your local.

     1. Setup SSH Key (Local Machine)
```bash
    ssh-keygen -t ed25519 -f ~/.ssh/id_ed25519 -N ""
    pbcopy < ~/.ssh/id_ed25519.pub
    echo "SSH public key copied to clipboard - paste it in AMD Developer Cloud"
```
The key will be copied to the clipboard. Paste it into the ssh key field in the GPU creation windon and click `Add SSH key`.
     
  8. Click on `Create GPU Droplet` to create the instance
  9. Once the instance is created, click on the `Console` button to launch the GPU Droplet terminal. This terminal will be used for fine-tuning in the next steps.
     
### 2. Setup Environment
Once the terminal is open, run the following:
```bash
# Upload this repo to your instance or clone it
git clone https://github.com/Fabr1ce/fine-tune-llm.git
cd fine-tune-llm
```
```bash
# Install Python (if 'python' command not found)
sudo apt update
sudo apt install python-is-python3
```
```bash
# Install conda (if not available)
wget https://repo.anaconda.com/miniconda/Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh
bash Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh
```
```bash
# Create environment
conda env create -f environment.yml
conda activate llama3-rocm
```

### 3. Verify ROCm Setup
```bash
# Set ROCm environment variables
export ROCM_PATH=/opt/rocm
export HIP_PATH=/opt/rocm/hip
export PATH=$ROCM_PATH/bin:$PATH
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=$ROCM_PATH/lib:$LD_LIBRARY_PATH

# If PyTorch doesn't detect ROCm, reinstall with correct index
pip uninstall torch
pip install torch --index-url https://download.pytorch.org/whl/rocm5.7

# Verify ROCm is working
python -c "import torch; print(f'ROCm available: {torch.cuda.is_available()}')"
rocm-smi  # Check GPU status
```

### 4. Authenticate with Hugging Face
```bash
# Install and login to Hugging Face
pip install huggingface_hub
huggingface-cli login

# Request access to Meta-Llama-Guard-2-8B, if not already done in the pre-requisites, at:
# https://huggingface.co/meta-llama/Meta-Llama-Guard-2-8B
```

### 5. Prepare Your Data
Edit `data/sample.jsonl` with your/more instruction-output pairs if desired, there are already 3 examples:
```json
{"instruction": "Your question here", "output": "Expected response here"}
```

### 6. Run Fine-tuning
```bash
# For MI300X (can handle larger batches)
python scripts/finetune.py \
  --model meta-llama/Meta-Llama-Guard-2-8B \
  --data data/sample.jsonl \
  --output_dir results/checkpoints \
  --batch_size 4 \
  --epochs 1
```
```bash
# For MI250 (start small)
python scripts/finetune.py \
  --model meta-llama/Meta-Llama-Guard-2-8B \
  --data data/sample.jsonl \
  --output_dir results/checkpoints \
  --batch_size 1 \
  --epochs 1
```
### 7. Test Your Model
```bash
python scripts/infer.py \
  --model meta-llama/Meta-Llama-Guard-2-8B \
  --lora results/checkpoints \
  --prompt "Your test prompt here"
```

### 8. Monitor Training
```bash
# Watch GPU usage
watch -n 1 rocm-smi

# Check system resources
htop
```

### 9. Download Your Fine-tuned Model
```bash
# Compress the model for download
tar -czf fine_tuned_model.tar.gz results/checkpoints/
```
```bash
# Download via SCP (from your local machine)
scp -i ~/.ssh/id_ed25519 ubuntu@<instance-ip>:~/fine-tune-llm/fine_tuned_model.tar.gz ./
```
```bash
# Alternative: Use rsync for better transfer
rsync -avz -e "ssh -i ~/.ssh/id_ed25519" ubuntu@<instance-ip>:~/fine-tune-llm/results/checkpoints/ ./local_model/
```

## 📊 Expected Performance

| GPU    | Batch Size | Training Time | Memory Usage |
|--------|------------|---------------|--------------|
| MI250  | 1-2        | 2-4 hours     | ~32GB        |
| MI300X | 4-8        | 1-2 hours     | ~64GB        |

## 💡 Tips for AMD Developer Cloud

- **Save your work**: Download results before instance expires
- **Monitor costs**: Instances charge by the hour
- **Start small**: Use batch_size=1 first, then increase
- **Check logs**: Training progress saved in `results/logs/`

---

## 📁 Repository Structure

```
fine-tune-llm/
├── README.md
├── environment.yml
├── docker/
│   └── Dockerfile
├── scripts/
│   ├── finetune.py      # Main training script
│   ├── infer.py         # Inference script
│   ├── benchmark.py     # Performance testing
│   └── prepare_data.py  # Data preprocessing
├── data/
│   └── sample.jsonl     # Example training data
├── notebooks/
│   └── Finetune_Llama3_ROCm.ipynb
└── results/
    ├── logs/
    ├── checkpoints/     # Saved models go here
    └── samples/
```

---

## 🔧 Scripts Overview

### finetune.py
Main training script with LoRA configuration:
- Uses 8-bit LoRA with rank=8
- Targets q_proj and v_proj layers
- Supports batch size adjustment for different GPUs

### infer.py
Test your fine-tuned model:
- Loads base model + LoRA weights
- Generates responses to prompts
- Configurable temperature and max tokens

### benchmark.py
Performance testing utility:
- Measures tokens/second
- Memory usage monitoring
- Multiple run averaging

---

## 🐳 Optional: Docker Setup

```bash
# Build container
docker build -t llama3-rocm -f docker/Dockerfile .

# Run with ROCm support
docker run --device=/dev/kfd --device=/dev/dri -it llama3-rocm
```

---

## 🛠 Troubleshooting

**ROCm not detected:**
```bash
# Check ROCm installation
/opt/rocm/bin/rocminfo
```

**Out of memory:**
- Reduce batch_size to 1
- Use gradient_checkpointing=True
- Try fp16 instead of bf16

**Slow training:**
- Increase batch_size if memory allows
- Use multiple GPUs with device_map="auto"
- Monitor GPU utilization with rocm-smi

Commit message:

Update README with terminal and Jupyter usage instructions
Added instructions for using terminal or Jupyter notebooks.

README.md, after:

# Fine-Tuning Llama-Guard-2-8B on AMD Developer Cloud

Complete tutorial for fine-tuning Llama-Guard-2-8B using LoRA on AMD ROCm GPUs.

## 🚀 Quick Start on AMD Developer Cloud
### Pre-requisites
- Sign up at [developer.amd.com](https://developer.amd.com)
- [Request free credits](https://anchor.digitalocean.com/amd-cloud-free-credit.html) (about 4 hours are needed) if needed, this allows running an AMD GPU at no cost
- Request access to Meta-Llama-Guard-2-8B at: https://huggingface.co/meta-llama/Meta-Llama-Guard-2-8B. This may take a day to receive access
### 1. Create GPU Droplet
  1. Once logged into the AMD Developer Cloud account
  2. Go to Create at the top of the page
  3. Choose GPU Droplet, the MI300X x8
  4. For image, choose ROCm Software in the Quick Start tap
  5. In the Quick Start Package, choose PyTorch
  6. Click on `Add SSH Key` and run below script in the local terminal to create ssh key to add. This is important in case you need to ssh into the instance from your local.

     1. Setup SSH Key (Local Machine)
```bash
    ssh-keygen -t ed25519 -f ~/.ssh/id_ed25519 -N ""
    pbcopy < ~/.ssh/id_ed25519.pub
    echo "SSH public key copied to clipboard - paste it in AMD Developer Cloud"
```
The key will be copied to the clipboard. Paste it into the ssh key field in the GPU creation windon and click `Add SSH key`.
     
  8. Click on `Create GPU Droplet` to create the instance
  9. Once the instance is created, click on the `Console` button to launch the GPU Droplet terminal. This terminal will be used for fine-tuning in the next steps.
     
### 2. Setup Environment
Once the terminal is open, run the following:
```bash
# Upload this repo to your instance or clone it
git clone https://github.com/Fabr1ce/fine-tune-llm.git
cd fine-tune-llm
```
At this stage, you can use the terminal or the jupyter notebooks. It the following steps, the terminal is used.
```bash
# Install Python (if 'python' command not found)
sudo apt update
sudo apt install python-is-python3
```
```bash
# Install conda (if not available)
wget https://repo.anaconda.com/miniconda/Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh
bash Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh
```
```bash
# Create environment
conda env create -f environment.yml
conda activate llama3-rocm
```

### 3. Verify ROCm Setup
```bash
# Set ROCm environment variables
export ROCM_PATH=/opt/rocm
export HIP_PATH=/opt/rocm/hip
export PATH=$ROCM_PATH/bin:$PATH
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=$ROCM_PATH/lib:$LD_LIBRARY_PATH

# If PyTorch doesn't detect ROCm, reinstall with correct index
pip uninstall torch
pip install torch --index-url https://download.pytorch.org/whl/rocm5.7

# Verify ROCm is working
python -c "import torch; print(f'ROCm available: {torch.cuda.is_available()}')"
rocm-smi  # Check GPU status
```

### 4. Authenticate with Hugging Face
```bash
# Install and login to Hugging Face
pip install huggingface_hub
huggingface-cli login

# Request access to Meta-Llama-Guard-2-8B, if not already done in the pre-requisites, at:
# https://huggingface.co/meta-llama/Meta-Llama-Guard-2-8B
```

### 5. Prepare Your Data
Edit `data/sample.jsonl` with your/more instruction-output pairs if desired, there are already 3 examples:
```json
{"instruction": "Your question here", "output": "Expected response here"}
```

### 6. Run Fine-tuning
```bash
# For MI300X (can handle larger batches)
python scripts/finetune.py \
  --model meta-llama/Meta-Llama-Guard-2-8B \
  --data data/sample.jsonl \
  --output_dir results/checkpoints \
  --batch_size 4 \
  --epochs 1
```
```bash
# For MI250 (start small)
python scripts/finetune.py \
  --model meta-llama/Meta-Llama-Guard-2-8B \
  --data data/sample.jsonl \
  --output_dir results/checkpoints \
  --batch_size 1 \
  --epochs 1
```
### 7. Test Your Model
```bash
python scripts/infer.py \
  --model meta-llama/Meta-Llama-Guard-2-8B \
  --lora results/checkpoints \
  --prompt "Your test prompt here"
```

### 8. Monitor Training
```bash
# Watch GPU usage
watch -n 1 rocm-smi

# Check system resources
htop
```

### 9. Download Your Fine-tuned Model
```bash
# Compress the model for download
tar -czf fine_tuned_model.tar.gz results/checkpoints/
```
```bash
# Download via SCP (from your local machine)
scp -i ~/.ssh/id_ed25519 ubuntu@<instance-ip>:~/fine-tune-llm/fine_tuned_model.tar.gz ./
```
```bash
# Alternative: Use rsync for better transfer
rsync -avz -e "ssh -i ~/.ssh/id_ed25519" ubuntu@<instance-ip>:~/fine-tune-llm/results/checkpoints/ ./local_model/
```

## 📊 Expected Performance

| GPU    | Batch Size | Training Time | Memory Usage |
|--------|------------|---------------|--------------|
| MI250  | 1-2        | 2-4 hours     | ~32GB        |
| MI300X | 4-8        | 1-2 hours     | ~64GB        |

## 💡 Tips for AMD Developer Cloud

- **Save your work**: Download results before instance expires
- **Monitor costs**: Instances charge by the hour
- **Start small**: Use batch_size=1 first, then increase
- **Check logs**: Training progress saved in `results/logs/`

---

## 📁 Repository Structure

```
fine-tune-llm/
├── README.md
├── environment.yml
├── docker/
│   └── Dockerfile
├── scripts/
│   ├── finetune.py      # Main training script
│   ├── infer.py         # Inference script
│   ├── benchmark.py     # Performance testing
│   └── prepare_data.py  # Data preprocessing
├── data/
│   └── sample.jsonl     # Example training data
├── notebooks/
│   └── Finetune_Llama3_ROCm.ipynb
└── results/
    ├── logs/
    ├── checkpoints/     # Saved models go here
    └── samples/
```

---

## 🔧 Scripts Overview

### finetune.py
Main training script with LoRA configuration:
- Uses 8-bit LoRA with rank=8
- Targets q_proj and v_proj layers
- Supports batch size adjustment for different GPUs

### infer.py
Test your fine-tuned model:
- Loads base model + LoRA weights
- Generates responses to prompts
- Configurable temperature and max tokens

### benchmark.py
Performance testing utility:
- Measures tokens/second
- Memory usage monitoring
- Multiple run averaging

---

## 🐳 Optional: Docker Setup

```bash
# Build container
docker build -t llama3-rocm -f docker/Dockerfile .

# Run with ROCm support
docker run --device=/dev/kfd --device=/dev/dri -it llama3-rocm
```

---

## 🛠 Troubleshooting

**ROCm not detected:**
```bash
# Check ROCm installation
/opt/rocm/bin/rocminfo
```

**Out of memory:**
- Reduce batch_size to 1
- Use gradient_checkpointing=True
- Try fp16 instead of bf16

**Slow training:**
- Increase batch_size if memory allows
- Use multiple GPUs with device_map="auto"
- Monitor GPU utilization with rocm-smi
